European law protects you from automatic decisions. Which sounds like a minor thing, but if one
automatic system makes meaningful decisions about your life - whether you get a pay rise,
or if you get an official warning to get stuck at work - then you should be told that
was an automatic decision and you must have the opportunity to get it judged by a human being. At least
in Europe. And importantly, you should be able to tell a company never to make automatic decisions
about you and they must adhere to it. It is not necessary to be observed by small things like
online personality quizzes unless that quiz decides - without a person in the loop - about
You are a safe person to borrow money for.
But it is all fairly clear automatic systems, even if it may not feel that way
when you have just been denied a loan.
But what about automatic systems that are supposed to be harmful to humans?
I've filmed this tank before. It's an old Soviet T-34 combat tank, set in here
London two decades ago by a sour local resident who refused permission to build on this
piece of land ... but had permission to keep vehicles here. Or he also got permission
to put a 'tank' here because the local council thought he was talking about some kind of
storage tank, not a real T-34. The stories have become a little confused over the last twenty years.
But this tank is designed for people. It is designed for human soldiers taking human decisions.
And that concept may not be much longer.
You see, the US Army has just released a report called 'Visualization of the Tactical Battlefield on Earth
in the year 2050 '. Which sounds like a pretty boring cartoon, but it's actually
a nice reading experience; And they have some good things to say about automatic decision making.
The US Army believes that not all people have the ability to handle all the information that is going on
cast against them in the heat of battle in the future. Computer processing power, they say, will not
be a limiting factor and as people turn to automatic decision making,
We will of course be fine with using it, also on the battlefield. If you have a soldier that's fine with
Of course, to let the autopilot control their car, they will also be fine with doing exactly that
same on their tank and their weapons.
"Fight rhythms," - and I quote the report directly here,
"combat rhythms will increase to the point where, in many cases, no people want anymore
could be 'in the loop', but instead had to operate 'in the loop', where 'people
can only observe the behaviors that take place '... and' act according to the fact or with a back thought
in expected behavior. "
So to be clear: the US Army believes in the coming decades that they want
uncontrolled weapons that will have behavior patterns that an engineer will come to
trying to 'debug' while firing ammunition. If you are a programmer working
But 'open-source' computer vision, or coalition avoidance, or, let's say, something like that
herd behavior algorithms, then there is a chance that your code will end up as part of it.
And if you have moral objections: well, good for you, but it probably won't stop anyone.
And I suspect all the laws that Europe can muster will not make big when you have
One of these, quite literally, calls the shots.
Translated to Danish by: Daniel Westermann Strandby